
 Shining Force 2 Game Editor
 ---------------------------

 9 July 06


 Getting Started
 ---------------

 Currently the editor only supports the binary ROM format. If the ROM you
 have is in the interleaved Super Magic Drive format (.smd), you can save
 a copy of it in binary format by using the Convert -> SMD -> BIN menu
 item.

 A way to tell which version of the ROM you have if you're not sure is to
 open it up, and try to edit something. If my program asplodes, then it's
 an SMD, or a file that isn't a Shining Force 2 rom.


 Names
 -----

 The names of Characters, Classes, Item, Monsters and Spells all will have
 a pop-up text field with numbers in it. These numbers refer to what tile
 is displayed in the name; this can include wacky things like part of
 a health bar or the poison icon and such. 13 is the code used for a 
 carriage return and a space, which is used in many, many items.


 Character Stats
 ---------------

 The Projected Stat is how much a stat will be at level 30, at minimum. After 
 a promotion, you can see how much a stat will increase by subtracting the 
 base stat from the projected.

 Everything beyond level 30 averages out to around 1.5 for each stat that can
 grow, no matter who it is.

 The "Use Base Class List" tells the game's level-function to go to
 that guy's initial class for spell upgrades.


 Vague Stat Calculator Tips
 --------------------------

 Highlight outputted stats with your cursor and copy and paste them with the 
 Ctrl+C and Ctrl+V commands to make life bearable.

 The Overwrite Base Stats field is needed to estimate what stats a character
 can promote will have when promoted at X level. It should accept a blob of numbers
 copypasta'ed from the output field.

 This thing works by simulating results that the game might have, and then deriving
 average data by brute forcing a lot of data out of it. Therefore, a larger number of
 Iterations should yield more precise results, approaching (but never reaching), the 
 true values. More than 100,000 passes is probably unnecessary, and requires more time 
 to finish.

 If you would like to continue to look at a specific part of the output chart while
 pushing the button to generate many different numbers, click the text cursor to the line
 you'd like to be at the bottom of text box.

 The calculator is tied only to one Character Stats form, and not to any extras you may load.
 It is kind of funky, but I believe this is the simplest way to go for all involved.


 Getting Finished
 ----------------

 Since the SMD format is the most popular Genesis format, releasing
 an IPS patch for both ROM formats would be a nicety. You can find a
 file converter at Zophar's Domain under:

 http://www.zophar.net/utilities/segautil.html

 The program called ROM Converter looks like it should do it. I apologize
 for not including a BIN -> SMD function in this program; I don't believe
 it's worth the effort.

 For creating an IPS patch, the program called Lunar IPS should work:

 http://fusoya.eludevisibility.org/lips/

 This was done by the superhero ROM hacker FuSoYa, famous for his awesome
 Super Mario World editor.
