
 About the Shining Force 2 Game Editor
 -------------------------------------

 29 July 06
 Release 1.4 - www.meanderingdesigns.com/utilities/


 Why?
 ----

 Because Shining Force 2 is one of the best games of all time, and
 Genesis game editors are extremely rare. Also, I came across some Game
 Genie codes that changed the stats on weapons, knew that I could alter
 these bytes directly in the ROM permanently with almost no effort.


 How?
 ----

 Well, there aren't really that many codes out there for this game.
 But the item one let me see where the item data was stored, and fiddling
 with it for awhile unlocked the schema of what each of these numbers
 in these banks meant.

 The other stuff wasn't so simple. A LOT of number searches in differnt
 orders and spacing. At the very least, I knew the name list in the rom
 matched the order the data for these names was stored. I used Moogie's
 Shining Force 2 website ( http://sf2.shiningforcecentral.com/ ) as a
 primary reference. A couple errors there (the demon rod and sleep-spell
 info) scared the crap out of me; I thought something might have been
 wrong with my universe. I think Jaha's starting agility might be wrong
 too...

 Moogie's website had some scans from a book with character growth 
 patterns (if some stat will go up fast and then slow down, and such).
 This saved me an immense amount of time. Those charts aren't 100%
 accurate of course, especially with unpromoted characters with small
 stats.


 Credit
 ------

 I came across the game genie codes on Gamefaqs originally. The man
 who developed them is named Tony Hedstrom, and has a page full
 of his codes at: http://www.angelfire.com/games2/codehut/

 It was necessary to look up the Super MagicDrive format to write
 the happy SMD -> BIN function. The document I used to learn it was
 included in a zip file for the GROM utility, and was written by
 Bart Trzynadlowski back in 1999.


 Updates?
 --------

 Not for a very long while, unless someone with more skillZ (or luck) 
 than me takes the initiative.


 In Closing
 ----------

 If you'd like to help me out personally in a personal manner, you can
 advertise my non-sequitur comic at www.incrediblefurpals.com a bit. Tell
 your grandma, your grandma's grandma, and your cousin Jimmy. Put it in
 a dark corner of your signature when you talk on forums. Scrape the URL
 into the side of your car with a butterknife. Any level of subliminal
 or superliminal effort helps a lot.